*****************************************************
Neverwinter Nights: Shadows of Undrentide   -   README.TXT
*****************************************************

NEVERWINTER NIGHTS: SHADOWS OF UNDRENTIDE Developed jointly by BioWare Corp. and 
Floodgate Entertainment
 
C 2002 Atari Inc., S.A. All Rights Reserved. Manufactured 
and marketed by Atari Inc., New York, NY. Portions 
C 2002 Bioware Corp. BioWare Aurora Engine copyright 1997-2002 BioWare Corp.
All Rights Reserved. BioWare, the BioWare Aurora Engine, and the 
BioWare Logo are trademarks of BioWare Corp. All Rights Reserved. 
Neverwinter Nights, Forgotten Realms, the Forgotten Realms logo, 
Dungeons & Dragons logo, Dungeon Master, D&D, and the Wizards of the Coast 
logo are trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of 
Hasbro, Inc. and are used by Atari Inc., S.A. under license. 
All Rights Reserved. Windows and Windows 95/98/2000/XP are registered trademarks 
of Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved. The ratings icon is a trademark 
of the Interactive Digital Software Association. All other trademarks and 
copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

This file contains helpful information, late-breaking news and a description 
of certain functions which were not implemented when the On-Line Help feature 
and manual were created.


System Requirements
-------------------

 

*Minimum System Requirements

 

Operating System:  Windows 98, ME, 2000 or XP for server/client; 
            Linux for server; (Mac OSX pending in future) 
            (note that 95 and NT are not officially supported, 
            though the game may run for some users in NT)
Processor:  Pentium® II 450 MHz or AMD K6- 450 MHz
Memory:  Windows 98/ME/2000SP2/XP 128 MB 
Hard Disk Space:  1.2 GB of install space is required
CD-ROM Drive:  8x or better
Video:  TNT32meg class OpenGL 1.2 compliant video card
Sound:  Any Windows 98/2000/ME/XP compliant soundcard
DirectX:  DirectX® version 8.1
Peripherals: Keyboard, Mouse
Multiplayer (not required): Connecting as a Client - 56k Modem 
            Server Hosting 3 or less players (including server) - 56k Modem 

*Recommended System Requirements 

Operating System: Windows 98, ME, 2000 or XP for server/client; 
            Linux for server; (Mac OSX pending in future)
Processor: Pentium® III 800 MHz or AthlonTM 800 MHz
Memory:  Windows 98/ME/2000SP2/XP 256 MB
Hard Disk Space: 2.0 GB of install space required
CD-ROM Drive: 8x speed
Video: NVIDIA GeForce 2/ATI Radeon
Sound: Windows 98/2000/ME/XP DirectX® certified sound card
DirectX:  DirectX® version 8.1
Peripherals: Keyboard, Mouse
Multiplayer (not required): 
            Connecting as a Client - Broadband Connection recommended 
            Server Hosting more than 2 players 
                        - Broadband Connection recommended




Installing Neverwinter Nights: Shadows of Undrentide
-----------------------------

To install NEVERWINTER NIGHTS: SHADOWS OF UNDRENTIDE just insert
the NEVERWINTER NIGHTS: SHADOWS OF UNDRENTIDE
INSTALL DISK 1 into your CD-ROM drive and follow the on-screen 
prompts to install the game. 

If the AutoPlay screen does not automatically appear after inserting 
the NEVERWINTER NIGHTS: SHADOWS OF UNDRENTIDE CD Install Disk 1 into
your CD-ROM drive, follow these steps:

1.	Close all running programs.
2.	Ensure that the NEVERWINTER NIGHTS: SHADOWS OF UNDRENTIDE
	CD Install Disk 1 is in your CD-ROM drive.
3.	Double-click My Computer on your desktop.
4.	Double-click the CD-ROM icon.
5.	Double-click on the Setup.exe icon to launch the installer.
6.	Follow the on-screen instructions to launch the game. 

Note: you do NOT need to install GameSpy Arcade to play Neverwinter Nights
on the Internet.

After installing the game, you will be offered the choice to view the readme 
or play the game. The readme is a text file, which lists additions to the 
manual since printing. 

***Note:
The config utility does not correctly detect CPU speeds over 2.0GHz.
It will instead report a negative number and consider such systems to have
a slow CPU. Its recommended settings in this case may be much lower than
the system can handle.


Optimizing Gameplay
-------------------

The installer automatically detects the type of system you have and 
configures your option settings for optimal gameplay when you first install.  
You can adjust the option settings later but if you turn up your 
options this may cause slowdowns in gameplay if you are running
on less than a recommended system (see above under System Requirements).

Defragging harddrive makes saving the game much faster - we recommend you 
defrag your harddrive prior to installing and occasionally between 
play sessions. 

If you are experiencing slowdowns or poor performance, we recommend that 
you try turning down Options settings such as:
	
	(Video Options) Graphics quality
	(Video Options)	Creature shadow detail
	(Video Options)	Enable environment shadows
	(Video Advanced Options) Grass
	(Video Advanced Options) Creature wind
	(Video Advanced Options) Number of dynamic lights
	(Video Advanced Options) Shadow casting lights
	(Video Advanced Options) Anti aliasing
	(Video Advanced Options) Texture animations
	(Video Advanced Options) Environment mapping
	(Video Advanced Options) Visual effects high

	
Certain options such as shiny water, dynamic lighting, and anti aliasing 
may only be available on the recommended video cards and higher.

Note: in order to enable Shiny water you must have a GeForce 3 
or better video card.

A recommended system will be able to play the game with most of 
the advanced options turned on while a minimum spec system may require 
some of these options to be turned off.


The Official Campaign
---------------------

This expansion pack was designed to be a purely single-player or one-party, 4 player multiplayer experience.
This mean that the leader of the party (Host, or first player to join) is 
considered the leader and will be the preferred character for quests and
NPC interactions.

Modules you create using the toolset or download can of course be single-player, 
multi-player co-op/one-party, or multiplayer with multiple parties/PVP.

Before moving between any of the Chapters or End Chapters in our 
campaign, be aware that you can never go back to the previous chapter 
(to collect discarded equipment, or complete subplots).  
Take what you need before you leave a chapter!

The official campaign has been designed with the following level 
progression in mind:

	Chapter 1: Levels  1 to  7
	Interlude: Levels  7 to 9	
	Chapter 2: Levels  9 to 13


	
INSTRUCTION MANUAL
------------------

Included on this product's game disc is an electronic version of the game's Instruction Manual in .pdf format, Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.1 (which enables you to view the manual in .pdf format), and an Install Guide file explaining how to access and use these features. Please refer to the Install Guide file by clicking on the Start button on your Windows® taskbar and then selecting Programs > Neverwinter Nights > SoU Install Guide.


Spell-caster Hints
-------------------
Spellcasters need to have high ability scores to cast high level spells.
The prime attributes for the various spell casting classes are as follows:

Wizard: Intelligence
Bard, Sorcerer: Charisma
Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Paladin: Wisdom

When you create your character and hit the Recommended button at the ability 
score page, you will be given an appropriate number of points in the prime abilities
for your chosen class.

The way the formula works is that the character can cast spells if their required
ability score is equal to or greater than 10 + the level of the spell.

For example, a wizard with only 10 intelligence could only cast cantrips 
(level 0 spells). A sorcerer with a 19 charisma could cast up to 9th level spells.


Extra Functionality
--------------------

TAB KEY: Pressing this button will highlight all objects in the visible area. 
Any creatures in this area will display their name and health above their heads.

TYR'S POOL OF LOST ITEMS: In chapter one there is a pool -- normally found 
in the main floor of Drogan's House.  This pool will contain a temple store, 
where for a small fee, players may purchase 'lost' items. These 'lost' items 
are items that have been taken away in a multiplayer game by players who have 
logged off, or which have been dropped elsewhere in the single player campaign. 
The items are marked as 'plot' and hence are necessary to complete the module.  
In this way, if you ever find that you have 'lost' a critical path or required 
quest item in either single player or multiplayer in the official campaign, 
you can obtain the missing item for a small fee from the pool.

DATE and TIME: IF you move the mouse over the compass it will tell you the month day 
and time currently in the game.

HENCHMEN INVENTORY:  By navigating through the Henchmen Radial menu, the player can now access their henchmen’s inventory.  The player can now equip their henchmen and upgrade their weapons, or give them healing potions.  Shopkeepers become confused if the player tries to sell or buy items from the Henchmen’s inventory.  It’s better if you move all items you wish to sell to your backpack then sell them to a merchant.
The types of weapon or item henchmen can use depend on the henchmen’s feats, just as the player.  Items the henchmen cannot use will be highlighted in red.  However, if the player can use them they will not appear red until they are fully placed into the henchmen’s inventory.  In the same token items the Henchmen can use but the player cannot, will not appear red until they are placed into the player’s inventory.

Henchmen Tips
-------------------

You are able to train your henchmen to take different classes than the one they started with. Dorna is capable of being a cleric, and without any guidance from you, she will split her levels between rogue and cleric. Xanos will take a maximum of two levels of barbarian to compliment his sorcerer nature unless ordered otherwise. Deekin has the potential to gain levels as a rogue as well as his primary class of bard. However, you may talk to your henchmen and ask them to either focus on their primary class, or their secondary class instead of their default training behavior.

If you are a cleric you may want to take Dorna and ask her to never level up as a cleric, so that she can maximize her rogue skills. Likewise a rogue or spell-caster might find Xanos more useful as a barbarian. Deekin is very effective if the player has him take only one level of rogue for the sneak attack ability and then focus on the bard class exclusively after that point.

Also note that you can have the henchmen prepare themselves before battle by casting spells on themselves (or you). Just talk to them and explain what you want them to do.

Henchmen Death
---------------------

From time to time your henchmen may die.  When this happens, they will fall prone and mention they need to be healed.  The player can use a spell, potion, or healing kit to bring the henchmen back to life.

Sometimes the henchmen will panic and they will use their own rings to bring them back to Drogan’s house.  At other times they may take enough damage to knock them unconscious, and will be removed from the party.  To get them back the player will need to heal them up fully and then talk to them and ask them to join again. 

Respawning
---------------

In the interlude and Chapter two of Shadows of Undrentide the player can no longer respawn as Drogan’s ring will not work at such great distance.  If a player dies in either of these two chapters they cannot select respawn to return to camp.  Therefore it is highly recommended that the player save often.



General Multiplayer Info
------------------------

Shadows of Undrentide was designed to be mostly a single player experience.  Multiplayer games are possible and every effort was made to accommodate this style of play.  However, there may be minor issues that effect multiplayer games that would not occur in a single player game, (for example; sharing gold and XP in a larger party.)

Be sure to take some raise dead scrolls with you if you are playing multiplayer.  Dead party members cannot give up plot items easily.  


If one of the clients has a plot critical item and logs out of the game, we have designed the game so that item is not needed.  For example a key to unlock a door is removed when a client user logs out.  The door that key would unlock will be unlocked automatically.

Other items will be kept in special locations.  If the Pen or inkwell for chapter two is removed, they will appear in the pillar between the books in the main library.  


In addition, we recommend that a multiplayer party be no larger then 4 people.

Please also see the Neverwinter Community webpage for more information on 
multiplayer at nwn.bioware.com.



Firewall Information
--------------------

If you are trying to connect to a Neverwinter Nights server through a 
firewall, NAT, or router, here is some information for you to help you get 
connected. First, please read the manual that came with your firewall or 
router.

Neverwinter Nights uses UDP, not TCP for its connections.

If you think that your firewall is preventing you from connecting to the 
game servers, please make sure that the following ports are open:

Ports 5120 through 5300

If you are wanting to make sure that your NAT is set up to allow the game 
to play here are some details:

Outgoing packets:
Source port: 5120-5129
Destination port: 5121-5300

Incoming packets:
Source port: 5121-5300
Destination port: 5120-5129

On the Game Client side, you can select what port your client uses. Go to 
your nwnplayer.ini file in your NWN Client Beta install directory. Find the 
following section:

[Profile]
Client Port=5120

Change this number if you need to force Neverwinter Nights to connect as a 
client on a different port.

Gamespy
-------

If you want to get a server listing via GameSpy, you’ll need additional 
ports to be open: 6667, 80, 27900, 28900, 29900, 29901, 13139, 6500



Banning and UnBanning in Multiplayer
------------------------------------

Please also see the Neverwinter Community webpage at nwn.bioware.com 
for more information on banning and unbanning.

When unbanning, you need to restart the server or the unbanning will not take effect.


If you accidentally ban someone and want to allow them back on your server,
don't panic, there's a simple fix. Find the nwnplayer.ini file and open it
with a text editor (notepad works well). Inside, you will find 3 headings:
	[Banned Ips]
	[Banned Players]
	[Banned CD Keys]

These represent the lists that any new server started on that machine will
use. If you want to clear them out, just delete the 3 headdings and
everything within them. If you know who you want to "unban" just remove
that specific IP, Player Name, or CD Key and make sure to renumber any
following entries so they're in order.

For example, given:
	[Banned Players]
	0=Trent
	1=Scott
	2=Paul
	3=Derek

If you want to unban Paul, but make sure that no evil Trent's, Scott's or
Derek's can get into your game, change it to the following:
	[Banned Players]
	0=Trent
	1=Scott
	2=Derek

As well, if you want to add a group of people to the banned list, there is
limited use of wildcards in two of the lists.

For IP's, you can enter partial starting IP's to ban entire domains:
	[Banned Ips]
	0=199.168.0.1
	1=199.168.1
	2=199.168
- these are all valid, as is
	3=199.168.2.*
and even
	4=199

For Player names, you have 2 wild cards, one at the start of the name and
one at the end of the name, both can be used simultaneously. For example:
	[Banned Players]
	0=Trent
	1=*Trent
	2=Trent*
	3=*Trent*

All of these are valid entries and will work as you would expect wildcards to work.
For example: "*Trent" will ban everyone with a "Trent" at the end of their name
- "Trent*" will ban everyone with a Trent at the start of their name
- and "*Trent*" will ban everyone with a "Trent" in their name at all
(don't add the quotes). The entries are case sensitive.


CD Key Troubles
---------------

If you are having problems with your CD Key, please contact Atari Support 
through the methods listed below under the Technical Support section of this readme.

Game Known Issues
-----------------

Please see the BioWare Neverwinter Community website (nwn.bioware.com) for 
a list of known compatibility issues, and work-arounds, if available. Also see the 
Atari Inc. support website (listed below, under the Technical Support section of this
readme).

SoU uses more visual effects and Placeables then the original game used.  On lower 
end machines, this may cause some slowdowns in frame rate.  By reducing the graphic 
quality through the Video Options menu, the speed should return.


There is a known issue where henchmen sometimes do not switch from a ranged weapon like a bow or sling to a two handed weapon.  They will attack with their ranged weapon.  If you notice your henchmen doing this, open his inventory and switch the weapon for them.

There is a known issue when the game crashes to a Black Screen after choosing a character (or creating a new character) and clicking play.  One possible cause of this is if your computer has a corrupted "temp" folder in the Neverwinter Nights directory (or a file called "temp" with no file extension). Deleting the "temp" file/folder or renaming it should fix the problem.


Sometimes a message will appear when trying to load a module. "Could not load the module. Could not unpack the module" 

One possible cause of this is if your computer has a corrupted "currentgame" folder in the Neverwinter Nights directory (or a file called "currentgame" with no file extension). Deleting the "currentgame" file/folder or renaming it should fix the problem

The game uses CD copy protection.  This type of protection occasionally has
incompatibility issues with certain CD and DVD drives.  If you are experiencing 
difficulties with launching the game post-install, try rebooting your computer and 
try running the executable again - this seems to work in the majority of cases.  

3DFX is no longer in business; although some Voodoo 5 cards may work occasionally 
they are no longer supported by 3DFX and available drivers do not 
generally include complete OpenGL support required for Neverwinter Nights.  
Hence, 3DFX graphics cards are not supported by NWN.

The movie player may not work properly under Windows 98 or Windows ME 
with certain video cards.  Updated drivers may help.

If you are having slow movie playback under Windows 98 or Windows ME 
you can edit the "SafeMovie=1" entry in your nwn.ini file to "SafeMovie=0" 
- this will improve playback speed in-game but may introduce problems 
where the sound plays but the movies visuals do not.  We mention this purely 
as an option for the advanced user.

The game may crash if you Alt-Tab while loading or saving a game.

The game window will not render properly if you attempt to play in a window 
while your desktop resolution is set to 800x600 or less.

The default video drivers provided with Windows XP do not have robust Open GL 
support.  Upgrade your drivers if you have Windows XP as soon as possible.

Sounds may not play correctly or the game may crash under Windows XP 
if you are using the default drivers for the Creative Labs Soundblaster Live Cards.  
Please upgrade your drivers as soon as possible.

GeForce 256 and the Nvidia drivers (43.45) have minor conflict issues with NeverWinter, 
There may be some odd graphic corruption.

Neverwinter Nights was designed to run under 32 bit color depth.  
Running under other bit depths will reduce the performance of the game.


The "Memory Level=1" setting in the nwn.ini may have unintended consequences 
when set to values greater than 1.


1. At 1024x768 with ATI Radeon 7500 and below, frame rate is less than 20 fps.
2. At 1024x768 with Nvidia GeForce 2MX and GTS, frame rate is less than 20 fps.
Note: Graphics qualities adjustment was necessary to achieve desireable frame rate of 30 fps.
3. In Windows 9x, at 1024x768 and higher, adjusting the options with the mouse pointer is difficult.
The user must place the palm of the mouse pointer to adjust option.
4. All Nvidia GeForce2 chipsets and lower on all OS, adjusting the Overall Graphics Quality causes the game to crash to the desktop with an error.
5. SIS 315 and SIS 330, Adjusting the Set Resolution in the Video Options cause the game to crash to the desktop without error.

Shiny water:

In the video options menu the player will see the option to enable "shiny water".  On some video cards, this option is unavailable:

1. ATI Radeon 7500 and below,Nvidia GeForceDDR, GeForce 2, GeForce4 MX440, and QuadroPro2, Matrox Parhelia, Matrox G400, Matrox G450, and Matrox G550, SIS 315 and 330. 

Installing expansion packs
--------------------------

On Windows XP operating systems, The install program may encounter an unknown error when using a disk from a more recently published Neverwinter Nights expansion pack.  (Installing expansion pack 2 then expansion pack one for example.)

This problem occurs on Windows XP systems with Windows Update 328310 installed. You must install Windows Update 814995 to correct this problem and then reinstall Neverwinter Nights and the expansion packs.



Known BioWare Aurora Neverwinter Toolset Issues
-----------------------------------------------

Check the BioWare Neverwinter Nights Community Website (nwn.bioware.com) for 
an in-depth tutorial and reference manual on the BioWare Aurora Neverwinter Toolset.

For design purposes, the level of compliance with the 3rd Edition D&D rules
differs between the game and the toolset.  This means that it is possible to
design creatures and items that exceed limits that the game may enforce.

The Shadows of Undrentide Ruins tileset has both interior and exterior tiles
on the same tile set.  This allows player to go from inside to outside without
a screen transition.  When building an area with this tileset, be sure to know
which features and groups go inside, and which go outside.  They will be 
marked with (exterior), and (interior) next to the group or feature name.  

Overriding TGA files via a Hak Pak may not have any visible effects,
because the texture packs use DDS files, which the graphics engine uses
in preference to TGA files. DDS is an internal proprietary compressed
texture format.

Certain tiles occasionally exhibit a strobing effect in the toolset - this is not 
visible in-game.

There is an issue with large volumes of text in Name, Description, and
similar fields being cut off (or potentially crashing the game). If you
stay under 1024 characters (approx. 200 words) it should be fine.

Changing the number of undo levels in the Tools->Options dialog doesn't
actually change the number of undo levels.  It is currently set to the
default of 32 levels of undo.

Flames for the tile source lights may not always be created (but can be placed 
manually).

If you have more then about a dozen or more 3D sound objects placed in an
area, they may not all play due to there being a limited number of
available 3D voices. This number varies by sound card, drivers, and
Sound Provider that you pick in the Game's Advanced Sound Options.

To force the nearest sounds to play, if they're not already playing,
turn off playing of placed sound objects and then turn it back on.

3D sounds in the toolset are quieter relative to 2D sounds than they
are in the game. Remember this when balancing sound volumes. In general,
it's a good idea to test an area in game to make sure that it sounds
right.

Pressing the Ctrl key in the conversation editor may lead to an access
violation when editing multiple files.  You will still be able to save
your current conversations.  You will need to close down the conversation
editor and reopen it for it to function properly again however.


Creating Modules with original game content only
------------------------------------------------
The Shadows of Undrentide toolset has all the new Placeables, items, monsters, 
and tiles that are included in the three modules that make up the SoU campaign.

Because of these additional tools, systems that do not have Shadows of Undrentide 
installed cannot play a module built with the SoU Aurora Neverwinter Toolset.





Trademark and Copyright
-----------------------

NEVERWINTER NIGHTS:  Shadows of Undrentide was developed Jointly by BioWare Corp, and Floodgate Entertainment

C 2002 Atari Inc., S.A. All Rights Reserved. Portions 
C 2002 Bioware Corp. Manufactured and marketed by Atari Inc.., New York, NY.
BioWare Aurora Engine copyright 1997-2002 BioWare Corp. All Rights Reserved.
BioWare, the BioWare Aurora Engine, and the BioWare Logo are trademarks 
of BioWare Corp. All Rights Reserved. Neverwinter Nights, Forgotten Realms, 
the Forgotten Realms logo, Dungeons & Dragons logo, Dungeon Master, D&D, 
and the Wizards of the Coast logo are trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, 
Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. and are used by Atari Inc., 
S.A. under license. All Rights Reserved. Windows and Windows 95/98/2000 
are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 
The ratings icon is a trademark of the Interactive Digital Software Association. 
All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

Disclaimer
----------

You may not modify, enhance, supplement, and create any derivative work from, 
adapt, translate, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or otherwise 
reduce the Software to human readable form.  


TECHNICAL SUPPORT (U.S. & Canada)
---------------------------------

Help Via the Internet at Atari:
Up-to-the-minute technical information about Atari Inc. Interactive products
is generally available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week via the Internet at:

http://www.atarisupport.com/

Through this site you'll have access to your FAQ (Frequently Asked
Questions) documents, our FTP (File Transfer Protocol) area where you can download
patches if need, our Hints/Cheat Codes if they're available, and an 
E-Mail area where you can get help and ask questions if you do not find 
your answers within the FAQ.

In addition, the BioWare Community website provides detailed online information 
about Neverwinter Nights.  The official forums for Neverwinter Nights are located at 
forums.bioware.com, the Neverwinter community is located at nwn.bioware.com 
or www.neverwinternights.com, and you can also look at www.bioware.com 
for more information about the game.

Help Via Telephone/Fax or Mail in the United States & Canada
For phone assistance, call Atari Inc. Interactive Tech Support at 
(425) 951-7108.   Our Interactive Voice Response and Faxback system is
generally available 24/7, providing automated support and allowing FAQ 
documents to be faxed to you immediately.  Live support is available 
Monday through Friday, 8:00 AM until 6:00 (Pacific Time).  Note: We may
be closed on major holidays. 

Before making your call, we ask that you be at your computer, have the 
following information available, and be ready to take notes:

System Make and Model
Processor Type
Operating System, including version number if possible (such as 
        Windows(r)95; Windows(r)Me)
RAM (Memory)
Any screen or error messages you've encountered (and where)

You may also fax in your Technical Support questions or problems to:
(425) 806-0480, or write to the address below. 

Product Return Procedures in the United States & Canada
In the event our technicians at 425-951-7108 determine you need to 
forward materials directly to us, please include a brief letter 
explaining what is enclosed and why.  Make sure you include the Return
Merchandise Authorization Number (RMA#) supplied to you by the technician,
and your telephone number in case we need to call you.  Any materials
not containing the RMA# will be returned to you unprocessed.  Send your
materials to the following address:

Atari Inc.
Attn:  TS/Cs Dept. 
13110 NE 177th Place
Suite #B101, Box 180
Woodinville, WA 98072-9965
RMA#:  

END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
--------------------------

END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
IMPORTANT — READ CAREFULLY:  Please be sure to carefully read and understand all of the rights and restrictions described in this End-User License Agreement (“EULA”).
AGREEMENT
This document is an agreement between you and Atari, Inc. and its affiliated companies (“Company”).  The enclosed software game disc(s), cartridge or Game Pak (“Software”) and any accompanying printed materials are licensed to you only on the condition that you accept all of the terms contained in this EULA.
By opening this package and installing or otherwise using the Software you agree to be bound by the terms of this EULA.  If you do not agree to the terms of this EULA you may not install or use the Software and within 15 days of purchase you must call the Tech Support telephone number listed in the manual accompanying the Software (the “Manual”).  Select the Automated Phone System’s Main Menu option for Consumer Services and follow the prompts.
You will be given a Return Merchandise Authorization number (RMA #) by the technician.  You then have 15 days from the date of this contact to return the Software in its protective covering, the Manual and the original sales invoice to the address supplied to you.
If this is a PC product, when you install the Software you will be asked to review and either accept or not accept the terms of the EULA by clicking the “I Accept” button.  By clicking the “I Accept” button you acknowledge that you have read the EULA, understand it and agree to be bound by its terms and conditions.
COPYRIGHT
The Software is protected by copyright laws and international copyright treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties.  All title and copyrights in and to the Software (including but not limited to any images, photographs, animations, video, music, text and “applets” incorporated into the Software) and any printed materials accompanying the Software are owned by the Company or its Licensors.
GRANT OF LICENSE
The Software is licensed and not sold to you and its use is subject to this EULA.  The Company grants you a limited, personal, non-exclusive license to use the Software in the manner described in the user documentation.  The Company reserves all rights not expressly granted to you in this EULA.
PERMITTED USES
1.	If the Software is configured for loading on a hard drive, you may install and use the Software on a single computer.
2.	You may make and maintain one copy of the Software for backup and archival purposes, provided that the original and copy of the Software are kept in your possession.
3.	You may permanently transfer all your rights under this EULA, provided you retain no copies, you transfer all of the Software (including all component parts, the media and printed materials and any upgrades) and the recipient reads and accepts this EULA.
RESTRICTIONS
1.	You may not delete or obscure any copyright, trademark or other proprietary notice on the Software or accompanying printed materials.
2.	You may not decompile, modify, reverse engineer, disassemble or otherwise reproduce the Software.
3.	You may not copy, rent, lease, sublicense, distribute, publicly display the Software, create derivative works based on the Software (except to the extent expressly permitted in the Editor and End-User Variation section of this Agreement or other documentation accompanying the Software) or otherwise commercially exploit the Software.
4.	You may not electronically transmit the Software from one computer, console or other platform to another or over a network.
5.	You may not use any backup or archival copy of the Software for any purpose other than to replace the original copy in the event it’s destroyed or becomes defective.
EDITOR AND END-USER VARIATIONS
If the Software includes a feature that allows you to modify the Software or to construct new variations (an “Editor”), you may use such Editor to create modifications or enhancements to the Software, including the construction of new levels (collectively the “Variations”), subject to the following restrictions.  Your Variations: (i) must only work with the full, registered copy of the Software; (ii) must not contain modifications to any executable file; (iii) must not contain any libelous, defamatory or other illegal material, material that is scandalous or invades the rights of privacy or publicity of any third party; (iv) must not contain any trademarks, copyright-protected work or other property of third parties; and (v) may not be commercially exploited by you, including but not limited to making such Variations available for sale or as part of a pay-per-play or timesharing service.
TERMINATION
This EULA is effective until terminated.  You may terminate this EULA at any time by destroying the Software.  This EULA will terminate automatically without notice from the Company if you fail to comply with any provisions of this EULA.  All provisions of this EULA as to warranties, limitation of liability, remedies and damages will survive termination.
LIMITED WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES
You are aware and agree that use of the Software and the media on which is recorded is at your sole risk.  The Software and media are supplied “AS IS.”  Unless otherwise provided by applicable law, the Company warrants to the original purchaser of this product that the Software storage medium will be free from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use for ninety (90) days from the date of purchase.  The warranty is void if the defect has arisen through accident, abuse, neglect or misapplication.  If the Software fails to conform to this warranty, you may at your sole and exclusive remedy, obtain a replacement free of charge if you return the defective Software.  Follow the Product Return Procedures described in the Manual.  The Company does not warrant that the Software or its operations or functions will meet your requirements, or that the use of the Software will be without interruption or error.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS WARRANTY SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING AND WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS WARRANTY SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY DOES NOT WARRANT, GUARANTEE OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION REGARDING THE USE OR THE RESULTS OF THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE IN TERMS OF ITS CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, CURRENTNESS OR OTHERWISE.  SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF OR LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

IN NO EVENT WILL THE COMPANY OR ITS EMPLOYEES OR LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR INJURY TO PERSON OR PROPERTY, FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, LOSS OF PRIVACY, FAILURE TO MEET ANY DUTY AND NEGLIGENCE) ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF THE COMPANY OR AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMPANY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
IN NO EVENT WILL THE LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY FOR DAMAGES WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE EXCEED THE AMOUNTS ACTUALLY PAID BY YOU FOR THE SOFTWARE.
CHOICE OF LAW AND VENUE
This EULA is governed by the laws of the United States of America and the State of New York, exclusive of its conflicts of law provisions.  The exclusive venue for litigation regarding or arising from this EULA is New York County, New York and you agree to submit to the Jurisdiction of the courts of New York County, New York for any such litigation.
MISCELLANEOUS
If any provision or portion of this EULA is found to be unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, it will be severed from and in no way affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of the EULA.
This EULA constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company regarding the Software and its use.


NEVERWINTER NIGHTS:  Shadows of Undrentide Developed Jointly by BioWare Corp. and Floodgate Entertainment

C 2002 Atari Inc, S.A. All Rights Reserved. Portions 
C 2002 Bioware Corp. Manufactured and marketed by Atari Inc., 
New York, NY. BioWare Aurora Engine copyright 1997-2002 BioWare Corp. 
All Rights Reserved. BioWare, the BioWare Aurora Engine, and the 
BioWare Logo are trademarks of BioWare Corp. All Rights Reserved. 
Neverwinter Nights, Forgotten Realms, the Forgotten Realms logo, 
Dungeons & Dragons logo, Dungeon Master, D&D, and the Wizards of the 
Coast logo are trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc., 
a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. and are used by Atari Inc, 
S.A. under license. All Rights Reserved. Windows and Windows 95/98/2000 
are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 
The ratings icon is a trademark of the Interactive Digital Software 
Association. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of 
their respective owners.

Windows(r) and DirectX(r) are either registered trademarks or trademarks of
Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
 
Pentium(r) is a trademark or registered trademark of Intel Corporation or its 
subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.


Additional credits
-------------------
The following people were missed in the credits in the manual and game;

Additional Atari Beverly QA 

Tim Burpee
Joe Faulstick
Daniel Frisoli
Bobby Gilkerson
Jen Guerra
Jen Kaczor
Milton Laureano
Becky Madore
Mike Murphy
Shaun Quinn
Mike Romatelli
Brett Penkul
Brian Scott
Jared Sorensen
Brian Swedis
Paul Swedis
Jeff Tolleson
Jay Brown
Chris Watson
Zach Smith



Final Special Thanks from BioWare
---------------------------------


In addition to the people listed in the manual and credits movies, BioWare/Floodgate wishes 
to also thank the following people:
Matt Pantaleoni, Gregory Amato, Robert Gagne, Dani McDowell,Scott Rollins, 
and Joseph Taylor for the long days they spent at BioWare providing quality 
assurance testing and suggestions. 

Georg Zoeller and others at BioWare for providing quality assurance 
testing and suggestions, and also to thank our hundreds of beta testers 
for their valuable input, bug reports and suggestions. 

We also want to thank Upper Crust for providing us with dinner.  

A special thanks to Rich Redmond from Wizards of the Coast for giving us valuable information, and suggestions on making a D&D video game.   

Finally, BioWare wishes to thank our fans for their support over the years for all 
of our products - we have worked very hard to try to make Neverwinter all 
that it could be, and we humbly hope that you enjoy the game!

Sincerely, 

Darcy Pajak – Assistant Producer
Trent Oster - Project Director/Producer; 
Ray Muzyka - Co-Executive Producer/Joint CEO; 
Greg Zeschuk - Co-Executive Producer/Joint CEO;
and the rest of the Neverwinter Nights team at BioWare Corp.


